Let Pi denote the Vigenere cipher where the message space consists of all three-character strings over the English alphabet, and the period is fixed to two and so the key is a uniform string of length two. Define A as follows. A outputs a message consisting of three a characters and another message consisting of two a characters followed by a b character. When given a ciphertext, it outputs zero if the first character of the ciphertext is the same as the third character of the ciphertext, and outputs one otherwise. Compute the probability that the adversary wins.

Let Pi denote the Vigenere cipher where the message space consists of all three-character strings over the English alphabet, and the key is generated by first choosing the period uniformly from one, two, or three, and then letting the key be a uniform string of the chosen length.

Define A as follows. A outputs a message consisting of two a characters followed by a b character and another message consisting of an a character followed by two b characters. When given a ciphertext, it outputs zero if the first character of the ciphertext is the same as the second character of the ciphertext, and outputs one otherwise. Compute the probability that the adversary wins.

Construct and analyze an adversary for which the probability that the adversary wins is greater than your answer from the previous part.

In this exercise, we look at different conditions under which the shift, mono-alphabetic substitution, and Vigenere ciphers are perfectly secret.

Prove that if only a single character is encrypted, then the shift cipher is perfectly secret.

What is the largest message space for which the mono-alphabetic substitution cipher provides perfect secrecy?

Prove that the Vigenere cipher using a fixed period is perfectly secret when used to encrypt messages of the same length as the period. Reconcile this with the attacks shown in the previous chapter.

Give a direct proof that a scheme satisfying the definition of perfect secrecy must have a key space at least as large as the message space. Specifically, let Pi be an arbitrary encryption scheme with a key space smaller than its message space. Show an adversary for which the probability of winning is greater than one half.

Hint: It may be easier to let the adversary be randomized.

The following questions concern multiple encryptions of single-character ASCII plaintexts with the one-time pad using the same eight-bit key. You may assume that the plaintexts are either upper- or lower-case English letters or the space character.

Say you see the ciphertexts 1011 0111 and 1110 0111. What can you deduce about the plaintext characters these correspond to?

Say you see the three ciphertexts 0110 0110, 0011 0010, and 0010 0011. What can you deduce about the plaintext characters these correspond to?

Hint: Focus on the second bit of the ciphertexts.